## Data folder contents
Brief descriptions of files in this folder.

`complete_rateconstant_list.dat`  
This file contains the parameters for calculating the reaction rate constants in the final kinetic scheme.  Each row corresponds to a reaction from `complete_reaction_list.dat` and lists "A n E" for that reaction.

`complete_reaction_list.dat`  
Each row in this file describes a reaction in the kinetic scheme.  Reactants are written with a negative stoichiometric coefficient, followed by an underscore, then the reactant name.  Products have a positive stoichiometric coefficient.  Different molecules are separated by commas.

`compositionlist.dat`  
This file is automatically generated every time `ligpy.py` is run - it is built based on the information in `elemental_analysis.dat`.  In this file each species of lignin is described by the number of moles of each pseudocomponent from the model (LIGC, LIGH, LIGO).

`elemental_analysis.dat`  
This file is the **only file in this folder that future users will likely edit directly**.  It contains experimental results for the elemental analysis of various lignin species that you might want to model with *ligpy* (mass fractions of C, H, O).  If a species of lignin is not present in this file you will not be able to model it.

`faravelli_rateconstantlist.dat`  
`faravelli_reactionlist.dat`  
These files describe the rate constants and reactions from the original Faravelli et al. paper that our model is modified from.  It is included for reference.

`rates_and_ODEs.txt`  
This file is not used by any modules in the program, it is only included so users can see what equations are being solved by the ODE solver.
